saying that Jan 6, 2021 should be described as a “mob of extremists and terrorists” who “launched a violent and deadly assault on the People’s House and the sacred ritual to certify a free and fair election.” -- jan_6
saying that Jan 6, 2021 should be described as  “the things and events that happen when a sacred landslide election victory is so unceremoniously & viciously stripped away from great patriots who have been badly & unfairly treated for so long.", and those who participated should be pardoned -- jan_6
supporting the claim that Biden won the 2020 election -- 2020_election
supporting Trump's claims about the federal election interference were 'not unreasonable' -- 2020_election
stating that the government should take significant steps to increase the availability and production of electric vehicles -- ev
arguing Biden’s electric vehicle efforts in his campaign are a threat to the auto industry and U.S. economy as a whole, and should be immediately repealed -- ev
arguing that the housing crisis should be solved by: a $10,000 tax credit spread over two years for first-time homebuyers to offset higher interest rates. To help increase the inventory of lower-cost homes a one-year tax credit of up to $10,000 for middle-class families who sell a home that is below the median price in the area. Proposal to build or renovating more than 2 million housing units and offering $25,000 in down-payment assistance to first-generation homebuyers. -- housing
arguing that the housing crisis should be solved by: lower housing costs by encouraging the construction of new housing on the “periphery of cities and suburban areas” where land is cheapest and cancel Biden’s “anti-suburban housing regulation. -- housing
arguing we should unwind the Trump tax cuts for Americans making over $400,000, and raise the corporate tax rate from 21% to 28%, $3,600-per-child tax break for families, an $800 average tax cut for “front-line workers” and a 25% minimum tax on billionaires. -- taxes
supporting “extending the Trump tax cuts” -- taxes
opposing across-the-board tariffs — but favoring some targeted tariffs, such as steel and aluminum from China, accusing the country of unfair trade practices. -- tariffs
imposing a 10% tariff across all imported goods. -- tarifs
supporting more funding for public education — particularly in lower-income communities — and universal preschool. -- education
supporting to “get rid” of the Education Department and “let local areas and, frankly, states handle education.” -- education
supporting forgiving some student loans and make community college tuition-free, and "while a college degree still is a ticket to the middle class, that ticket is becoming much too expensive.” -- student_loans
pushing for cuts to programs that assist with student loan forgiveness but did suspend interest on student loan payments during the coronavirus pandemic. -- student_loans
arguing that America's rivalry with China should chiefly be seen through a national security lens -- china
arguing that China should be hit with high tariffs -- china
strongly supporting NATO and international alliances -- nato
stating skepticism of any international obligations that might encumber American sovereignty or cost it money -- nato
supporting funding Ukraine in their war against Russia, arguing to provide financial assistance and weaponry -- ukraine
arguing to stop the war between Ukraine and Russia within 24 hours -- ukraine
supporting the restoration of Roe v. Wade as the “law of the land” -- abortion
arguing abortion should be regulated at the state level with exceptions for rape, incest, and maternal health -- abortion
prioritizing climate change mitigation by rejoining the Paris Agreement, including climate policy in major legislation like the Inflation Reduction Act, and setting new energy efficiency standards. -- climate
prioritizing economic growth over environmental regulations and opposing international climate agreements. -- climate
supporting a balanced approach to criminal justice, seeking reforms while also backing increased funding for crime prevention and police -- criminal_justice
taking a hardline stance on crime, criticizing protesters and accusing political opponents of failing to address violence, while also supporting criminal justice reform and opposing what he sees as unfair prosecutions of his supporters. -- criminal_justice
supporting strengthening civil service protections to maintain the independence and proper functioning of the federal government. -- civil_service
seeking to weaken civil service protections and increase oversight of federal agencies and intelligence operations -- civil_service
supporting a balanced approach to immigration, favoring measures to raise the bar for asylum-seekers while also creating a pathway to citizenship for undocumented immigrants. -- immigration
promising a hardline stance on immigration, vowing to shut down Biden's border policies, end catch-and-release, restore the Remain in Mexico program, and eliminate asylum fraud, while also deputizing the National Guard and local law enforcement to assist with rapidly removing illegal alien gang members and criminals -- immigration
supporting decriminalizing marijuana and exploring its potential medical benefits, but has stopped short of fully legalizing it at the federal level -- marijuana
taking a mixed stance on marijuana, supporting medical use and state-level legalization but also questioning the drug's benefits and taking some actions against it -- marijuana
arguing to expand protections for transgender and LGBTQ individuals, including through Title IX, while also deferring on certain contentious issues like the participation of transgender athletes in college sports. -- transgender
opposing expanding transgender rights and has vowed to use federal power to restrict gender-affirming care, discussions of transitioning in schools, and the legal recognition of gender identity. -- transgender
supporting TikTok as a national security threat -- tiktok
criticizing the Biden administration's efforts to restrict Tiktok -- tiktok